# Coupling OpenFOAM

## Contents

<!-- toc orderedList:0 -->

- [Coupling OpenFOAM](#coupling-openfoam)
	- [Contents](#contents)
	- [Overview](#overview)
	- [Location of the coupling data](#location-of-the-coupling-data)
	- [Boundary conditions in OpenFOAM](#boundary-conditions-in-openfoam)
		- [Dirichlet](#dirichlet)
		- [Neumann](#neumann)
		- [Robin](#robin)
	- [Steady-state simulations](#steady-state-simulations)
	- [Execution](#execution)

<!-- tocstop -->


## Overview

Depending on whether it is a transient or a steady-state simulation, different OpenFOAM solvers are executed.  The case files must be prepared accordingly.

- buoyantSimpleFoam (steady-state)
- buoyantPimpleFoam (transient)

## Location of the coupling data

All the coupling data of OpenFOAM solvers is located at the cell face centers (i.e. no data is located at the cell vertices).

## Boundary conditions in OpenFOAM

The boundary condition to be used for the coupling must be defined on the interface patch(es) of the temperature field in the `T` file (e.g. `0/T`).  It is important to setup the correct type, otherwise the solver will crash when the adapter tries to update the values with the coupling data.  Regarding the values to be used, one would typically set it the same way as setting initial conditions.  It is also recommended to do an initial exchange of the boundary values, by setting `initialize="yes"` in the `exchange` tag(s) in the preCICE configuration file.

### Dirichlet

    interface
    {
	    type fixedValue;
	    value uniform 310;
    }

### Neumann

    interface
    {
	    type fixedGradient;
	    value uniform 0;
    }

### Robin

Robin-Robin coupling is achieved in OpenFOAM through the use of `mixed` type boundary conditions for the temperature.  Here, it is important to set `refGradient` to 0. `refValue` may be set to the temperature of the coupling partner and `valueFraction` to value between 0 and 1; these are not important if running a steady-state simulation or if implicit coupling is used.

    interface
    {
	    type mixed;
	    value uniform 293;
	    refValue uniform 310;
	    refGradient 0; // must be 0!
	    valueFraction 0.5;
    }

## Steady-state simulations

- Only explicit Robin-Robin coupling is supported
- Timestep must be 1
- The stepping is not controlled by preCICE, therefore, it is important to make the end time of the simulation match the value specified in the preCICE configuration file.
- If multiple participants are used, residual control must be disabled for the SIMPLE algorithm, otherwise one of the participants may terminate earlier, causing the others to terminate as well

## Execution

From the CHT case root directory, we execute the OpenFOAM solver with:

    [foam solver] -case [case directory] -precice-participant [participant name]

For example:

    buoyantPimpleFoam_preCICE -case fluid -precice-participant Fluid
    buoyantSimpleFoam_preCICE -case fluid -precice-participant Fluid

A different YAML configuration file might be provided with `-precice-config [my-config.yml]`.
