# Coupling CalculiX


<!-- toc orderedList:0 -->

- [Coupling CalculiX](#coupling-calculix)
	- [How to setup an interface](#how-to-setup-an-interface)
	- [Boundary conditions in CalculiX](#boundary-conditions-in-calculix)
		- [Dirichlet](#dirichlet)
		- [Neumann](#neumann)
		- [Robin](#robin)
	- [Supported element types](#supported-element-types)
	- [Location of the coupling data](#location-of-the-coupling-data)
	- [Execution](#execution)

<!-- tocstop -->

## How to setup an interface

> In this section we describe the files that are required for each interface.  We assume that the name of the interface is "interface", and therefore all the files have this name (with different extensions).

For each interface, it is necessary to generate these two files:
- `interface.nam`: contains the set of nodes
- `interface.sur`: contains the set of element faces

Depending on the type of boundary conditions used for the coupling, _one_ of the following files might be required:
- `interface.dfl`: initializes the flux values at the interface elements; required if Neumann boundary condition is to be used
- `interface.flm`: initializes the sink temperature $T_{\infty}$ and the heat transfer coefficient $h$; required if Robin boundary condition is to be used

## Boundary conditions in CalculiX

### Dirichlet

To use Dirichlet boundary condition in CalculiX, we add a line that specifies the temperature of the interface.

    *BOUNDARY
    Ninterface,11,11,300

### Neumann

To use Neumann boundary condition in CalculiX, we specify a distributed heat flux (DFL):

    *INCLUDE, INPUT=solid/interface.dfl

A sample of the `.dfl` file is provided bellow.  Each line contains the element ID, the face ID and the value of the heat flux (0 in this case).

    ** DFlux based on interface
    ** DFlux based on interface
    7118, S1, 0.000000e+00
    2781, S4, 0.000000e+00
    6014, S1, 0.000000e+00
    6178, S1, 0.000000e+00
    3818, S2, 0.000000e+00
    ...

### Robin

To use Robin boundary condition in CalculiX, we specify a film heat transfer at the coupled surface.

    *INCLUDE, INPUT=solid/interface.flm

## Supported element types

The current implementation only works with tetrahedral elements.  Both first order (C3D4) and second order (C3D10) elements are supported.  Please note, however, that when higher order elements are used, data that comes from the Gauss points (such as the heat flux, the sink temperature and the heat transfer coefficient) is averaged over the multiple Gauss points.  Only the average value at the face center is exposed to preCICE. (This will be soon changed to expose the individual Gauss points and their data to preCICE.)

## Location of the coupling data

| Data | Location |
| --- | --- |
| Temperature | Nodes |
| Heat-Flux | Faces* |
| Sink temperature and heat transfer coefficient | Faces* |

*To be changed to Gauss points before the end of the thesis.

## Execution

From the CHT case root directory, we execute the CalculiX participant with:

	ccx -i [.inp file without the extension] -precice-participant [participant name]

For example:

	ccx -i solid/solid -precice-participant Solid

A different YAML configuration file might be provided with `-precice-config [my-config.yml]`.
